add_depth_estimation_tutorial (#334)
johko/computer-vision-course: chapters/en/unit8/monocular_depth_estimation.mdx

Typically, the architecture for this image-to-image task is an encoder-decoder model, like a U-Net, with various modifications. Formally, this is a pixel-wise regression problem. Imagine how challenging it is for a neural network to accurately predict distances for each pixel, ranging from a few meters to several hundred meters. <br> This brings us to the idea of moving away from a universal model that predicts exact distances in all scenarios. Instead, let's develop a model that approximately (relatively) predicts depth, capturing the shape and structure of the scene by indicating which objects are farther and which are closer relative to each other and to us. If precise distances are needed, we can fine-tune this relative model on a specific dataset, leveraging its existing understanding of the task.

![image/png](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/resolve/main/Metric%20and%20Relative%20Monocular%20Depth%20Estimation%20An%20Overview.%20Fine-Tuning%20Depth%20Anything%20V2/different_scales.png)

> The problems don't end there

Author: Agreed

>The model not only has to handle images taken with different cameras and camera settings but also has to learn to adjust for the large variations in the overall scale of the scenes.

Apart from different scales, as we mentioned earlier, a significant problem lies in the cameras themselves, which can have vastly different perspectives of the world.

![image/png](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/resolve/main/Metric%20and%20Relative%20Monocular%20Depth%20Estimation%20An%20Overview.%20Fine-Tuning%20Depth%20Anything%20V2/focal_lenght.png)

Notice how changes in focal length dramatically alter the perception of background distances!

Lastly, many datasets lack absolute depth maps altogether and only have relative ones (for instance, due to the lack of camera calibration). Additionally, each method of obtaining depth has its own advantages, disadvantages, biases, and problems.

![image/png](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/resolve/main/Metric%20and%20Relative%20Monocular%20Depth%20Estimation%20An%20Overview.%20Fine-Tuning%20Depth%20Anything%20V2/metrics1.png)

> >We identify three major challenges. 1) Inherently different representations of depth: direct vs. inverse depth representations. 2) Scale ambiguity: for some data sources, depth is only given up to an unknown scale. 3) Shift ambiguity: some datasets provide disparity only up to an unknown scale and global disparity shift that is a function of the unknown baseline and a horizontal shift of the principal points due to post-processing

Author: This is a quote from the article. 
I'll add about disparity.

>Concretely, the depth value is first transformed into the disparity space by \\( d = \frac{1}{t} \\) and then normalized to \\( 0 \sim 1 \\) on each depth map. To enable multi-dataset joint training, we adopt the affine-invariant loss to ignore the unknown scale and shift of each sample:
$$\mathcal{L}_1 = \frac{1}{HW} \sum_{i=1}^{HW} \rho(d_i^*, d_i),$$
where \\( d_i^* \\) and \\( d_i \\) are the prediction and ground truth, respectively. And \\( \rho \\) is the affine-invariant mean absolute error loss: \\( \rho(d_i^*, d_i) = \left| \hat{d}_i^* - \hat{d}_i \right| \\), where \\( \hat{d}_i^* \\) and \\( \hat{d}_i \\) are the scaled and shifted versions of the prediction \\( d_i^* \\) and ground truth \\( d_i \\):
$$\hat{d}_i = \frac{d_i - t(d)}{s(d)},$$
where \\( t(d) \\) and \\( s(d) \\) are used to align the prediction and ground truth to have zero translation and unit scale:
$$t(d) = \mathrm{median}(d), \quad s(d) = \frac{1}{HW} \sum_{i=1}^{HW} \left| d_i - t(d) \right|.$$

> In fact, there are many other methods and functions that help eliminate scale and shifts. There are also different additions to loss functions, such as gradient loss, which focuses not on the pixel values themselves but on how quickly they change (hence the name — gradient). You can read more about this in the MiDaS paper, i'll include a list of useful literature at the end. Let's briefly discuss metrics before moving on to the most exciting part — fine-tuning on absolute depth using a custom dataset.

Author: Agreed

### Getting Started with Fine-Tuning

Now, let's dive into the code. If you don't have access to a powerful GPU, I highly recommend using Kaggle over Colab. Kaggle offers several advantages:
- Up to 30 hours of GPU usage per week
- No connection interruptions
- Very fast and convenient access to datasets
- The ability to use two GPUs simultaneously in one of the configurations, which will help you practice distributed training

You can jump straight into the code using this [notebook on Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/code/amanattheedge/depth-anything-v2-metric-fine-tunning-on-nyu/notebook).

We'll go through everything in detail here. To start, let's download all the necessary modules from the authors' repository and the checkpoint of the smallest model with the ViT-S encoder.

#### Step 1: Clone the Repository and Download Pre-trained Weights

```bash
!git clone https://github.com/DepthAnything/Depth-Anything-V2
!wget -O depth_anything_v2_vits.pth https://huggingface.co/depth-anything/Depth-Anything-V2-Small/resolve/main/depth_anything_v2_vits.pth?download=true
```

> If you don't work at Kaggle, you can download the dataset [here](http://datasets.lids.mit.edu/fastdepth/data/) 

Reviewer: Do you mean "registered at Kaggle" or really "work at Kaggle"?
```suggestion
If you're not registered at Kaggle, you can download the dataset [here](http://datasets.lids.mit.edu/fastdepth/data/) 
```

Author: I'll just rewrite it more logically, leaving only “you can also download the dataset here”
